and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out our weekly email where
I share actionable B2B marketing and
website tips useful podcasts goodies
resources and more to kick off your week
with a bang why not give it a try over
at business growth dot email
so join me today I've got Kevin Casey
Kevin is a shareholder and a growing 70
million insurance brokerage 70 million
dollars and growing and he's author of
the book coming out in 2023
on selling Kevin a warm welcome to the
show sir how are we how's everything
across the pond in the UK yeah as we
were discussing just now um apart from
falling apart all around us I try to
avoid the news but I I generally stay
pretty upbeat so yeah yeah it's not too
bad man how are you we're a perfect
match it's all Fallen apart over here
too so let's keep it together yeah man
we're gonna tell people hopefully how to
pick up the pieces in uh a recession
right in front of us so we're gonna be
talking all about why it should be why
you should stop being a at the mercy of
your buyer and why a sales process is
crucial as small business owner
as a rep
and even if you're a marketer having
your team follow a repeatable process
that can consistently kind of weed out
bad fit prospects and attract and close
the right kind of deals for your
business so with that said
what the heck Kevin does being at the
mercy of your buyer what does that
actually mean
well I think if you just think about how
you behave when you're a buyer so let's
take our marketing and sales hats off
and when you walk into a mall
you need a pair of shoes because the
waiting starts in two hours you're
clearly there to buy a pair of shoes
and in the corner of your eye you see
this
salivating human being coming towards
you fast
and you know you're there to buy
Sam what do you say to that person
can I help you what do they say what do
you say initially
that is the standard response I mean if
I was I can say for example because I
used to work in retail so when I worked
in a little camera shop called jessup's
back when I was 18 19 that's exactly
what you go up and say to someone but Hi
how are you how can I help something
like that right so here's the thing it's
it's not that the buyer is doing
anything wrong
it's just we've been conditioned
since we were kids and my father who
passed away in 2019 and I miss him and I
love him
he told white lies all the time
so as kids when we were home and the
phone rang
and it was a telemarketer for my mother
I would hear my father say she's not
home right now call back
and he'd walk back to the table and we'd
say but Mom's here oh it's just a
salesperson
so we have seen this from our
grandmother's our parents
we've been told don't talk to strangers
so there is some life scripting
that said
don't tell your teacher a lie
don't tell a person of authority a lie
but it's okay to lie to a salesperson
because as David Sandler said you can
still get into heaven even if you lie
it's okay
it's so true right like it's so true so
I took this Sam is
I am not a professional seller I was an
entrepreneur
that became created a business in 2001
in a basement
an ad agency
and I love marketing but selling was
scary so we flipped the coin there was
only two of us in the basement we
flipped the coin and guess who got sales
not tails sales me
so I had to learn the hard way and I
wondered why I was getting ghosted used
abused so much
it's just human nature we don't like to
hurt people's feelings we want to be
polite for the most part
and you're kind of afraid of sales
people so you kind of these aren't big
laws where you withhold information
so once I realized
instead of directing my anger at the
prospects
I said if I know that's the way it is
why don't I just try to get to the truth
faster
by actually starting with no instead of
trying to get to yes and
when I did that life changed and it took
me a long while and a lot of mistakes a
ton of mistakes
but I know what it's like to be a small
business owner
and none of them are formally trained in
sales
they're picking up lunch they're firing
people they're trying to make payroll
and by the way you've also got to sell
and there's 38 million small businesses
in the U.S over your way there's five
and a half million
and by the way 90 of them are less than
non-employees you think they got a sales
department with a CRM and a full sales
leader they got nobody it's on them
so that's who I really want to connect
with because that was me that was
exactly me in 2001. yeah it's it's so
true right and why do you think it is
this might be a tough one but why do you
think people just for example on the
phone like it's the classic right if you
hear a sales rep immediately think are
they going to try and Pitch me like if
it's during the day you want to get back
to work if it's during the evening you
want to get to your wife and kids or
whatever you want to do play video games
whatever the heck it is
why is it entuned in our brain that we
can just say these white lies to
ourselves rep and it's absolutely fine
like we don't really care like it's only
a sales person I'm gonna hang up or tell
them to do one
well first of all if the industry
doesn't act like professionals
why would you expect to be treated like
a professional
so if you
call Sam Dunning and I act like I know
you it's like hey Sam it's Kevin how you
doing today
I mean you know right then and there I'm
a sales guy
but if you just do some things that are
a little bit different than the 99
percent of people do
so it's like hey Sam it's Kevin we
actually have never met before
and I know I'm calling you totally out
of the blue
but I help people kind of
like this and this could I just get 30
seconds
or do you want to just totally hang up
on me now and I'll totally understand
now if you follow that every time which
is classic Benjamin Dennehy everyone
watches it they're all going to follow
it
all I try to do is act like I'm human so
if someone if I call someone
and they say
oh I hate insurance people now I don't
know what happened in their life five
minutes before I called they could have
poured coffee over their crotch they
could have a massive fight with their
kids or their spouse
so I don't try to fight it all I try to
do is diffuse it so if someone says I
hate insurance people
I would probably say
oh I get it imagine hanging around them
for 10 hours a day
yeah yeah that's what happens
and the classic thing is if you see
someone struggle and be a bit real
you'll help them what you don't want to
do is have the person that sounds like
they're a CrossFit instructor that has
just chugged four Red Bull interrupting
you at 10 o'clock in the morning
do you think that that's like one of the
worst things that sells exec sales reps
can be over enthusiastic
100 because I did it I mean when I first
started selling I was taught be
passionate about what you sell be
passionate about your product make sure
you add value which is this
throwaway word that's out there now
uh yeah you shouldn't be enthusiastic
because the point is I have no idea if
I'm calling Sam Dunning
if he even is emotionally charged up
about the problem that I fix
so I never talk about the product I
always talk about the problem and I
always give the people the way out first
so maybe because I've been rejected so
much as this kid with glasses and short
I always want to get rejected first so I
give people the out very very early that
it may not even be right for you and
um people don't expect it so no you
shouldn't be enthusiastic it's a massive
source of sales resistance it creates
this barrier and
you know a doctor or a world-class chef
does not need to act like that they look
like they're doing a diagnosis and for
me I've had to calm myself down because
I can naturally be a very animated
person
but I really got to calm myself down not
to act enthusiastic I want to act almost
indifferent and maybe even a little bit
detached and bored
because again 99 of people don't sound
like that
yeah yeah I suppose the only time that
like you mentioned there at the time
that being enthusiastic is enthusiastic
is actually going to work if the person
on the other end of the zoom call phone
call Face to Face whatever
is in that exact same frame of mind
which the chances are unless they're a
good friend or a client of many years
that know you well and you can have a
laugh and a joke and a beer with
probably not going to be right right I
mean here's the funny thing about it all
I've had people say this to me my whole
life it's like well Kevin you're the
natural extrovert you love people uh the
point is
and this is proven by the way by someone
much smarter than me Adam Smith
from the Wharton business school did
this study
there's introverts and there's
extroverts
in the middle which is about 63 percent
of the population
are called ambiverts which they're not
hiding in the corner but they're not
backslapping everyone that passes them
by
and when they did a study of 4 000 Tech
sales people
the best performing
sales people were ambiverts so anyone
that's out there saying I'm not an
extrovert congratulations
that excuse to stop selling is over
because ambiverts listen better they're
more Curious they're more thoughtful
and they're not nearly as attached to
outcomes so celebrate ambiverts if
you're out there you're the best
salespeople out there naturally
so we've talked a little bit about what
sales people naturally do wrong and I
think like you said it's it's ingrained
in people and I know when I was a
in my younger days that perhaps the
managers or team that I work with kind
of just sadly need to sound more
enthusiastic you need to be upbeat
because that's going to sell over the
phone and like you said I've pretty much
learned the halfway very similar to you
Kevin
um and we're going to get into how you
can utilize a sales process that's going
to be effective and repeatable for your
business shortly but when we say being
at the must we've talked about kind of
what sales reps naturally do wrong
initially but when we say literally
being at the mercy
be letting your prospects your buyers be
in control
what does that really mean
yeah well it means first of all that
unlike a
you know if Sam you need to go to the
doctor hope you don't but you need to go
on the operating table
who's going to control the process you
or the doctor
I'd hope it was the doctor you would
hope
but with sales for some reason and again
this comes back to the point if we want
to be treated as professionals we got to
act like professionals
if you don't have a process what happens
is this the prospect picks it
and because you are so under pressure of
making a sale
you've got these happy ears the size of
Dumbo
and you only hear what you want to hear
so what happens is you ask a couple of
really soft qualification questions
because you want to keep Rapport and you
want to be friendly and you want to be
buddies and people spend way too much
time in Rapport by the way even you and
I today we were on this three or four
minutes before but like let's get to it
but it doesn't mean we're not friendly
but rapport is a bit overrated
and then you've got to let people know
what's coming
because the part that sales people who
aren't confident don't have a process
lose
is that if prospects don't know what's
around the corner
they're just going to go into chaos mode
and they're going to ask a whole bunch
of questions
but if you explain how it works
people want to be God in life
and they want to also know very early on
that it's okay to say no and you
literally have to say the words
Sam I'm not a fit for everybody
are you comfortable if it's just not
feeling right of being straight up with
me
and saying Kevin this isn't really
connecting I want to let you know that's
okay
and by the way I have the same right to
do it to you because we're both busy
and we both got better things to do than
stay on a call for 40 minutes that's
going nowhere
so the process is instead of
seeking the sale
all I'm doing is sifting so the original
prospector was sifting gold all we're
doing is sifting and if you're sifting
you're not attached to anything that's
fallen out of the bottom
so the best way to do it
is to actually bring up all the
objections first so I know what all the
objections are in my space
and I don't wait for the clients or the
prospects to bring it up I bring it up
first
and without doing that
sales people next to Google
are the second biggest source of free
information
they can't wait to talk
it's a great analogy right because like
you said if you go to a doctor's and
you've you've got something wrong with
you
you're not gonna just guess or tell them
what it is you might they might start by
saying look what's up
um what have you come in today and then
from there they're constantly asking
questions they're leading the process
they're probing they're they're trying
to get to the root of the issue
whereas if you went in there and started
guiding them they'd probably tell you to
get out or they say look don't waste my
time yeah I'm here you've only got a 10
minute slot you can either have me help
you or get the heck out of my office
great so I'm up front and saying you
know for me to be able to do it I've got
to ask you some questions and a lot of
questions and some of them may be even
uncomfortable you don't need to ask them
but I don't even know if I'm the right
fit for you yet
uh otherwise we're just order takers and
I think one of the things I've realized
when I entered the insurance space
is I wasn't sure if we had sales people
or we had order takers and Order takers
just take orders I mean it's no
different than pulling up to uh
McDonald's I mean people just give the
order and there's no art in that there's
no conversation there's no diagnosis if
you want a Happy Meal here's your happy
meal I don't try to talk you into
something else but part of this is for
me
is to stop thinking about it as selling
which used to panic me when I first
started in sales
and actually think about it as a
conversation
and your tonality just the pressure just
drops
as soon as you start saying
I'm having a conversation with somebody
even asking for referrals when I hear my
team talking about referrals
why don't you lower the pressure
and one word change Sam
instead of asking for a referral ask for
an introduction
one word the pressure went way down a
referral sounds like there's a lot of
liability and pressure there
but if I ask for an intro
man that sounds easy again
somehow the switch goes off when I've
seen really
good
curious people
that are in my car and we show up at a
sales meeting and they go from normal
human being
to Grant Cardone and they get all hyped
up to the next baby yeah their tonality
is different and
um they just stop listening and uh it's
not because they're bad people they're
just they don't have a process
and they don't know that it's human
behavior to tell these little white lies
so acknowledge that's not going to
change and you're not going to beat that
Human Condition in the world
so keep reminding them several times
that it's okay and the more positive
someone is with me
the more I actually push him away
because
this is why we all want inbound leads
because we think inbound leads are the
best thing on earth
but I just assume the inbound lead for
me is also an inbound lead for my five
competitors because it's too easy
so you've got to qualify them even
harder than you would to me a stranger
so this might be useful because there'll
be a lot of marketers
tuning in that might run sales teams or
might work closely closely with their
sales teams and likewise they'll be
small business owners too so
what in your opinion Kevin defines an
order taker versus a sales professional
so an order taker
there is no diagnosis you can fill out a
slip it's transactional
right there's no probing
um there's no uh kind of getting the
pain and the impact of that pain and
they're people that are already on the
part of the buying journey by the way as
you know
um they're already at the buying phase
there's no selling required if I I would
love to find out how out of 100 people I
can reach them when they're already
ready to buy because then it is about
the rational things like testimonials
and ratings
but most of the people that I sell to
don't even know they have a problem so
by me showing these are the clients that
I deal with and this is my reviews
they're not buying they just need to
know
how can you change the way I'm getting
things done today and to me the first
thing about an order taker is it only
works if they're ready to buy the real
challenge is how do you get those people
that don't even know they have a problem
and how do you do it in a way that
doesn't make them feel like they're a
nail and you're a hammer so how can you
do it without making them feel like
they're being convinced and get them to
convince you and when you get used to
that and that's why I call it on selling
you're never really selling because it
never feels like it
hmm
so
hey look I'm a marketer and I talk about
generating inbound leads all the time
right with your website with SEO paid
search you name it but
you're right a lot of inbound leads
there's there's different type right
different types of inbound leads so
I guess some of the strongest are the
prospects that have been following you
be that they've consumed your content on
different channels whether that's
podcast YouTube LinkedIn wherever
wherever they hang out and they've
consume your content sometimes because
they've done that they can have a very
strong bind to you what you're offering
you might have educated them over the
time and then when they by the time they
come inbound and they request a consult
whatever they might be ready to buy like
a few days later because they've they
trust you so much but on the flip side
of that coin you can have
a lot colder prospects whereby perhaps
they've just searched what you do on
Google perhaps they've seen an ad and
that's the first time encountering your
site
and then the chances are like you say
they're probably inquiring with maybe
two or three or more agencies companies
providers whatever the heck you sell
that's when it becomes a bit different
it becomes a bit more competitive
um
and like you say
that's when what you've talked about
actually filtering out the tire kickers
and kind of work working out how much
time you should spend on this
opportunity whether they're even in
decision making capabilities or whether
they're simply firing off three four
five quotes for management to think
about for the next six months
think about it Sam all the times you've
played Sports as a kid growing up
we were all taught that we wanted to win
the whole school system is you got to
get the answer right and don't question
everything
actually rewire your brain and be okay
with no
here's when I'm not okay with nose and I
did this from 2001 to 2006.
I found out the nose at day 244.
when you find out a no on day one or
hour one
it's not a no you've just saved yourself
a whole lot of time and I don't know the
last time I checked there's like seven
billion people in the world I can't
possibly reach all them so I have
learned that I know people
can't
be truthful to me so I find the truth by
making them comfortable I use humor a
lot because I find humor for me those
two things it settles me down inside
but also settles the whole situation
down
and I think when people do that they
suddenly see you as
a human not a salesperson because I
actually think at times they don't see
you as a human they see you as a
salesperson sometimes
so I just try to help them get to know
faster and I know it sounds
counterintuitive but
I'm okay with losing faster at this
point in my life because the one thing I
can't get back is time
and no matter how much money I've got I
can't get back time and I wasted a lot
of time knowing that something wasn't
right with that Prospect
but I felt so much pressure to have
a CRM that looked full and it wasn't
full of leads it was full of lies and
you know that's happening every
follow-up email a little piece of you
dies inside when you say I'm circling
back it's the worst feeling in the world
and um
you know I would rather be chased than
chasing I've chased way too much in my
life I'm done with it
and again the person that really needs
the help
are these small business owners
who were juggling 10 balls and I don't
want them to become a great seller I
just want to become a
good seller and very high awareness of
the way it is
so
is the problem
that they don't have a repeatable sales
process yeah is it or is it that they
aren't actually
generating enough opportunities I.E
they're not if they've got a marketing
team the marketing team aren't
generating enough inbound leads for the
sales rep or is it that the sales rep
should be doing their own outbound I.E
on the phones or on email whatever works
for them to generate prospects generate
opportunities so they're not putting so
much pressure on their their prospects
themselves to consistently be closing
they've actually got a healthy pipeline
of it leads whether that's come inbound
or outbound that they are then relaxed
so they don't need to put the 10x put
the pressure on
um on themselves on prospects so they
like you said can apply the
sifting process rather than going for
yes well it's hard to do that when you
see every post saying you know you need
to make up this this quarter I mean it's
easy to say uh luckily for me I don't
really care as much what the 200 person
operation is doing I'm going to go back
to the small business person
who doesn't have a marketing department
um they probably should understand that
the website they do need they can have
it and it can generate leads but
prospecting
sucks I mean if anyone says it doesn't
uh they're lying it's not a whole lot of
fun I don't care how much they say it is
but the downside if you don't Prospect
and you have a skinny pipeline
it is the root cause
of all evil and sales which is neediness
because if you've got a skinny pipeline
you are going to act needy and you're
going to feel like every deal you've got
to win so
first of all let's not blow off and say
prospecting is fun there's all kinds of
prospecting I will say that 70 of all my
prospecting these days are referrals
because to me they're not clients
they're human lead magnets that have
created this flywheel but it's taken me
20 years to get that momentum
you've got to find what works for you
and when I hear people say it's only
cold calling or it's only cold email
it's not one of the other you've got to
find a Cadence that works for you but
understand this if you don't time block
if you do not time block and treat it as
if you were going to an appointment to a
doctor you will never do it because
there's always something else that's
better than prospecting always even for
me today
and if I didn't time block
I would do anything I would it's just
it's the worst thing so I find what I
can do
is I don't rely on one platform I
multi-thread
but I also
um don't have the pressure of a 200
person operation
I'm thinking what does this person do
that's a small business person that's
the easiest path to getting prospects
and I would start there with them and
give them a very specific way to do it
but before they can do it they gotta
create the head trash that's in their
head by saying I'm not in sales well you
are
uh I'm not an extrovert we just told you
that amberverts are the best
and if you're not going to do it
who will
I mean without selling nothing really
happens the nation's gonna grind to a
halt of every salesperson when on
holidays for 30 days
I mean other people can go away but
it's it's a bit of a mindset but it is a
behavior and you can read as many books
as you want and I don't endorse one
process over another by the way I don't
think I have cracked the Holy Grail by
any account
but have a process
that's my point so if it's spin selling
Sandler
pick a process but just pick something
because I'm telling you if you don't
you get what you deserve
and when people say you know this person
ghosted me or they use me or they got a
proposal from me you allowed that
and the uncomfortable truth is you let
people treat you that way
and it took me a long while in my 40s to
get there but I got to the point where I
was just not going to let people treat
me like anymore and I was going to
deal with that I wasn't going to be rude
but I was going to control the process
and if someone didn't want to play by
that
rules they can get off the operating
table and find a different doctor and I
was okay with that and I had done that
and it doesn't mean again that I'm rude
I actually find a very nice way to do it
but if people don't want to answer the
questions
then I can't help them
um
it's a tough pill to swallow right like
if I look if I look back to when I was
doing all those things that you said
about like I had a skinny pipeline I was
emailing the leads in the pipeline every
few days saying just getting back what's
the latest here like where how are we
doing they weren't answering my calls
um all the all the telltale signs that
this Prospect doesn't give a about
you and that's probably not even
bothered or kind of gone to the solution
in-house or gone to another provider
um they're not they're not going to use
you or maybe they'll come back in a
year's time but that's just chance
so it just shows that having a a fat
pipeline full of qualified options is
one of the biggest kind of uh things
that you can fix at the start and the
ironic thing is and again I wish I knew
this in my 30s
as soon as you tell somebody
listen it sounds like you probably
solved this congratulations I'm going to
put this on ice and you can reach out to
me if you ever want to connect again
honest to God 80 of the time I get an
answer back
but if you sound needy and desperate
you're no different than that mall Clerk
or the mall kiosk Clerk or the someone
at the airport
selling the points where you fake a
phone call as you walk by because we've
all done it
you just don't want to do it but when
people actually say listen you're
totally busy I'm really glad you solved
this
um
I'll see you around but I'm going to put
this on Ice you know where to find me
80 of the time they get back to me
because they realize that you don't need
this sale and I never ever act like I
need the sale even those days that I
needed it and I can tell you when I
started my company we needed every
dollar of it
but if you act like it
they'll know what they can smell the
commission breath it is so easy and you
can't help it
it's not easy though is it what
everything you're saying like it's
it's like you said it's a tough build
for it it's very very difficult to then
put into play but when you do it's gonna
it's gonna do you wonders long term so
aside from making sure that you've
actually got that capability to to fill
up your pipeline whether you're
prospecting yourself whether your
marketing team's helping you with that
whatever's going on
to to actually put these things into
play because the first time I've ever
read books like Sandler and talk to
people like Benjamin Dennis hey
yourselves and others it almost sounds
foreign but once it clicks it clicks big
time and it's like why was I doing it
this way for so long now
how do you recommend let's say we're now
taking action we're actually you're
prospecting we're finding a way to fill
out pipelines so we're not as desperate
to close each and every lead that we
generate or that comes our way when it
comes to then putting this into some
kind of process and I know you referred
to a few books or sales processes too
um but are there like some Basics that
you recommend that people can take away
here Kevin when it comes to actually
kind of implementing that yes and none
of them require me or anyone else who
requires
two things you need to understand
if you wait
to have the belief that you can do it
before you start the behavior of
actually using it it will never happen
you actually got to go the other way
you've got to actually start trying some
of this stuff
and that will create the belief so it's
behaviors first the single most powerful
way
and I have seen this
take grown men and women
and make them turn white and let them
leave the room is when I talk about role
playing
and role-playing is the single scariest
thing for sales people especially ones
with egos who don't have a sales process
and they know it scary than cold Cooling
oh yeah I think sales reps did that
anymore well no one's around when they
cold call right so they don't know and
they hope they don't get listened to but
when you ask someone to role play
it is the single fastest way that I have
learned and it's uncomfortable
it's demoralizing at times
but you cannot binge watch a course or
read a book and hope to do this so
you're either going to do two ways
you're going to try it in real life in
front of a real Prospect
when the stakes are high or you're going
to find somebody you trust someone
that's maybe two steps ahead of you and
will be straight up with you and start
practicing with each other
and break it into chunks
instead of trying to do the whole thing
let's just do the beginning of the phone
call let's just do a proper discovery
like even that breaking into chunks I
think role-playing was for me the
biggest thing I still do with today I
still have people that I work with to
help me with my game
because there's no Finish Line and um
if people want to do this they need to
find someone as ambitious as them
and actually say why don't we start
working with each other and let's beat
this around in a safe Community
otherwise you're going to practice in
front of leads and you're going to
freeze and you're going to chop out the
uncomfortable bits
and you're going to dilute it down and
you're going to say it didn't work Kevin
but I know you've diluted it down
so role playing is a simple thing I
think if I ever
was to tell someone
you know this is how I would go from 0
to 60 in a as a salesperson I would say
let's pick one process
and let's role play it until you're
comfortable
till it becomes your muscle memory it's
just it happens like oxygen and for me
when someone hits me with anything rude
now or unexpected
I don't really have to think about it I
don't have a script but I have a whole
bunch of top tracks
in my head that I just kind of pull out
but I took hundreds and hundreds of
hours of role playing to get like that
it wasn't from a book the books are good
but you're not going to put into action
nearly as fast
um
yeah I mean that's something I've
neglected actually so something I'd be
Keen to do so I think it helped myself a
lot and I'm sure it could help a lot of
people tuning in now
when it comes to role playing so in the
btb world for example when you're
selling software selling services
typically once you've identified a
prospect whether that's from outbound or
inbound like you mentioned one of the
first steps is then setting up a
discovery call or some kind of
free 20 minute console whatever it might
be
um now this is probably the stage where
you want to qualify this Prospect in or
out to see whether they're gonna have a
demo with your presentation or whatever
that next part of the puzzle is in your
process
um
but what are some ways that you can role
play because I can imagine each scenario
like might be a bit different in terms
of you know the state that the
prospect's in how much of a problem
they've got
um what frustrations they have whether
they're actually the decision maker or
um perhaps a an executive needs to
report to the decision making these kind
of things so are there any ideas on how
we can I guess make sure we cover these
scenarios well I can't think of a worse
label whoever
put the label discovery
like literally should be kicked out of
the sales world and never allowed back
in I mean who wants to be discovered I
mean it sounds like you're about to go
through a root canal and again if you're
a salesperson that isn't comfortable
imagine now saying okay Sam now let's go
to discovery
I mean it sounds like you're about to
take off in a rocket and like a gun bark
on a new planet it's horrible again and
you wonder why it feels like an
interrogation
of close-ended questions
that ripped out
uh to me I don't even break out the
discovery from the call I just have a
conversation part of the conversation
is again leading with the problem and
this is the other thing especially with
business owners because they love their
products so much I mean these people
have left being a cog in the wheel
taking a chance because they love their
product or service
and you're telling them I don't want you
to leave with your product
and they're saying how dare you say I
can't lead with my product
and this is the hardest thing to do is
get them to say I want you to leave but
the problem that you fix in a different
way than someone's getting it done now
and when they start moving from product
to problem
this thing called Discovery gets way
easier because guess how you start off a
discovery is just to say
listen one of the things we do Sam when
I speak to people who run companies like
yours is they say they hear this this
and this
am I kind of totally off base there or
is any of those even sticking a little
bit true for you
then you may bring it up but I'm not
sure if that's a big enough problem to
deal with right now so now you've got to
find out is it a sooner problem or is it
a later problem my point is if it's a
later problem guess what the people in
my marketing department and nurturing
have a really important role
because right now
if my barbecue is half not working and I
can still use the other half
I don't know if I want to buy a new
Weber
but the day that goes out
I need it now and that person that's
been giving me some tips on recipes and
barbecue uh grills I'm going to remember
them so
um really just want to find out are they
emotionally charged up about the problem
how big is it compared to where they are
now and then they got to realize the
real competition isn't
your competition that you're run up
against
and we've talked about this Sam
that real competition is doing nothing
so I picture the prospect sometimes as a
sloth
that doesn't want to change because
even changing Insurance Brokers is a lot
of work I gotta fill out all these
application forms I gotta tell you my
revenues I gotta tell you how many cars
I got and their license plates
and You're Gonna Save Me five percent
like I'll just stick to what I got
so part of the discovery is actually to
challenge people saying
why don't you just kind of stick with
the way it is now because it sounds like
it's going pretty good
and let them defend their position so
instead of me convincing them that I'm
better than a status quo
I would even get them to say why are you
even doing this like
because one of the things when people
make big changes in companies whether
it's the websites
man you you can piss off a lot of people
in the company
by making big changes because it could
make the learning curves change it can
it can affect a whole bunch of
departments if you don't deal with that
stuff explicitly
what's going to happen is when it gets
to the decision maker at the end yep
we're just going to say this isn't worth
it oh it's the classic isn't it like
you'll you'll you'll get you'll get
happy ears because someone's agreed to
take a call with you and they'll say
something like uh this all sounds good
send me a quote send me a proposal you
send the proposal you followed up for
weeks months six months later they've
got back oh sorry the marketing manager
didn't actually want it or sorry the
director would couldn't approve it in
the end because there's too much hassle
and like you said if you bring these
objections up on that first call yeah
you're gonna find out super fast what
the real status is yeah and and
proposals the last time I checked they
take
tens
hundreds of hours hundreds of dollars
and you don't even know why you're doing
the proposal but you know I think as
Benjamin Denny he calls it they don't
call it proposals he calls it
documenting your stupidity
which it is because you haven't actually
even figured out if there's enough pain
and by the way pain isn't enough this is
where we stop because
I think about people I know that are in
miserable relationships
that's a problem they're in a miserable
relationship they hardly talk to each
other they're roommates
but they don't deal with it
so
it may be a pain but is it a pain
they're willing to deal with knowing all
the consequences that come along with it
and if you don't get down to that level
without making it feel like an
interrogation and the way to make it not
feel like an interrogation is to make it
feel like they're defending their Turf
and your keep pushing them away saying
why don't you just do it yourself
and people then the resistance comes
down and they actually convince
themselves but I don't do it to be
manipulative I just do it to save time
because
just don't want to waste time anymore I
just can't
do it it nothing crosses your dignity
more than chasing I mean it is the one
thing
that I said when I figured this out
if I can help the 31 year old version of
Kevin Casey who just doesn't know better
because they've watched The Wolf of Wall
Street or all these kind of always be
calling
I just want to always be disqualifying
and I want to do it in a way that gets
Sam to say you know what what a nice guy
he actually talked me out of doing
something
but here's What's Happening Now I want
to work with him even more
and I play the long game some of the
best wins I've had are people that are
marketing department have nurtured
for two or three years so
um you know it's not about guessing
which one of those two out of a hundred
are in part of that buyer Journey you
better have a process to deal with the
people who are not ready yet and instead
of making them feel bad or pushing them
just say do you mind if I stay connected
because I know you said this was
important
I send some of my clients stuff like
this once a month do you mind if I put
you on that list and if it sucks just
unsubscribe I won't I won't get mad at
all
and then you're in touch with them
because in my business
a lot of people show up like Santa Claus
once a year so if I can stay in touch
three or four times a year
they're going to come with me at some
point and I'm willing to wait and as
I've gotten older I've gotten more
patience and maybe that's why my
tonality has calmed down this would have
been a very different interview 20 years
ago I'm still waiting for that patience
to come and that's that's a pro
marketing tip about nurturing prospects
I've I've had similar like just um
obviously it's different depending on
the sector you're in but just connecting
with them on LinkedIn so they see your
content or like you said asking if
they're against signing up to your email
list or maybe mention if you run a
podcast or something like that just so
they've got some way that you can be
that top of mind giving them useful tips
educational resources whatever
so when they do need your help or when
there's someone they know like you say
they'll they'll intro you or they'll get
direct in touch really powerful exactly
cool man um at the start of that little
piece you you mentioned leading with
problems
so at the start of these calls
you want to lead with the 2-3 kind of
Juicy problems that your prospects tend
to comfort you with
because a lot of us are attached to our
product we want to talk about how great
our product our solution is we can 5x
your income we can 10 extra Revenue we
can save you time we can do all these
cool things that feature lead how do we
discover what the real problems are that
we can fix and how do we leverage those
how do you do it
yeah so first of all
um you got to be humble enough to say
you probably don't know the answer to
that and the only ones that do know the
answer to that
are those people that have actually
bought your products or Services before
and are willing to be really honest with
you
and you can understand
questions like just before you became a
customer what was the one thing that
maybe almost stopped that from happening
or what was the one thing that hit the
scale in our favor
so I am very big and I think any
business person can do this you're not
going to be able to figure out the
problems
uh you've got to go to the market
and ask it the other thing is you better
be aware of any environmental triggers
that are happening
and I'll give you one happening during
covid for insurance is that and I'm sure
it's like this in the UK all of a sudden
billing materials paint screws hammers
wood went up by 40 percent
and as soon as that happened to me it
created a problem and the problem is
people now have their buildings insured
and if that burnt down and they had to
replace it
cost has insured with was based on what
the wood was three months ago
so I knew there was a trigger
environmental thing that happened that
created a problem
and when I bring that to a business
owner
that lowers the resistance because I
tell them
I trigger their fomo which is no
business owner wants any other business
owner have an advantage
and if I can bring something to them
that says I'm not even sure if this is
the case for you but as you know
Billy materials have gone up 30 percent
how are you making sure that if
something bad happens and no one thinks
a bad thing will happen to them
what will happen to your business
if it cost a million dollars to replace
but it's only insured for 700.
and if I was able to give you something
to show you how to do that without me
hanging over your shoulder you want me
to send that over you can probably get a
gut check on how that looks what do you
think they're going to say they're going
to go yeah send it over because it's not
coming with me breathing over their neck
I didn't ask for a coffee chat I didn't
ask for a meeting
I just said I had this thing that might
see if you've got this invisible risk
for that bad thing you think will never
happen to you until it does
and they're going to say sure
and then if they still don't care
I'll move on hmm But it's my job to kind
of let them know there's something
happening that is an invisible risk that
they don't even see but I never leave
with the product I very rarely talk
about insurance
I would talk about to the CEO if I was
talking about cyber
their I.T person most times are the
worst people to speak to because they
tell the CEO who hasn't been on a
computer in two years I got firewalls up
we're good we're safe
but if I say the CEO let's just assume
that
this kid that's in a basement gets hold
of three thousand of your customers
credit cards and sense of information is
your I.T person in front of the
microphone or is that you
and I just let it sit and they go
that'll be me
and listen I'm not saying it is but we
do this cyber pressure test
and we can run it and get a sense of
where you are do you want us to do that
and if you don't there's no problem I've
done it for X Y and Z and they know
right now their competitors have had it
just it's this Aikido thing of just back
and forth but if I don't go in there
with something to get someone emotional
even insurance I am telling you
people when I came to insurance said
you're never going to get people
emotional about insurance
if I don't get people emotional there is
no change ever
because then it's all about price
that's logical
so problems create emotion products
create logic and if you don't leave with
problems and you don't find problems
they don't even know exists
you're going to be exhausted
you are going to be exhausted because I
lived it yeah yeah and just to wrap
things up so
in terms of the problems that make sense
to understand kind of what are the key
issues the key frustrations that your
target prospects potential clients are
facing and those then leverage those on
on the calls that you're having in terms
of getting people emotional
how do we check like what are some
telltale signs that a prospect is
emotional and they actually care about
something enough
to potentially be a customer are there
any or yes well they're not going to
high five you because that's too obvious
remember they can't trust you so if
they're you will hear things like
huh
what do you mean I don't get it
skepticism initially is actually a very
good response or someone actually
literally saying
what
say that again who you with
these are all good responses you know
you've struck a chord
when you get someone slightly intrigued
and Confused and I always say if we
thought like the last 15 seconds of
Netflix
that moment that we say should I watch
another episode or go to bed
that last 15 seconds creates that
emotional hook
that brains crave closure and they gotta
watch another episode if you don't lead
with emotional and disrupt their
thinking
and get them emotional of something
they've never been emotional about
before
it's going to be the hardest job you've
ever done because you're going to go
back to pushing products and that is a
miserable existence because then you're
an order taker
that's a great way to wrap it up Kevin
we'll have to get you back on the show
very soon to carry this carry this
little combo onwards because I think
there's uh there's another piece to be
played here in a part two potentially so
with that sir I want to thank you for
coming on I want to thank you for the
pleasure man it's been a pleasure thanks
for the invite and uh keep safe over
there you guys got a prime minister yet
what's happening
itself yeah give him 20 days we'll be
back out and then uh we might have
someone else in but yeah
anyway man to tell us um tell us more
about the book tell us more about how
one can connect with you and the best
way anyone tuning in video audio to get
in touch yeah well listen I'm on
LinkedIn a whole bunch so you can find
me there Kevin Casey
um I am pounding away in the book I you
know I run a business full time
uh I write in the morning so hopefully
in 2023 this book
uh which is all about people who need to
sell when selling isn't their thing and
the small business people are the people
that I want to stand behind because
that's what I've been my whole life and
uh if the book uh helps those people
uh what I call The Accidental sellers
they're the folks I want to be and I
think a lot of those are your customers
too so
um I appreciate the chance to get on I
enjoyed the Riff and let's do it again
yeah man we'll set up so we'll put all
of those links to your LinkedIn and the
book when it's out over in the show
notes at business growth dot marketing
cheers once again Kevin great great chat
and we'll uh we'll chat again soon have
a good Monday
cheers man and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on your podcast channel of choice goes a
long way or subscribe on YouTube is much
appreciated and with that we'll catch
you on the next one for more no BS
actionable tips to grow your business
and grow Revenue cheers for tuning in